Title: rovitotv.org is switching to github pages
Date: 2018-05-04 12:00
Modified: 2018-05-04 12:00
Category: Computing
Authors: Todd V. Rovito
Summary: Major updates at rovitotv.org, switching to github pages

I have been running rovitotv.org blog on a Rapberry Pi for
a while and it has been working with no problems.  But I wanted
to try out github pages and thought moving rovitotv.org would
allow me to learn github pages.  So over the weekend I moved
rovitotv.org to github pages and everything converted without a
hitch.  The site is still generated by Pelican static blog
software.  As an additional side effect I should see improved
uptime.  The images, pdf files, and zip files are hosted from
my Google Drive.  My Google Drive is upgrade to 100 GB for free
because I purchased a Chromebook! I plan on blogging about my
new Chromebook in the near future.

In some ways I will miss my Raspberry Pi but GitHub pages is
free, I like the GitHub workflow, it increased my GitHub
contribution count, it is worry free, and readers can now provide
feedback via pull requests/issues.  The only problem
I ran into was how to work with large images, pdf files,
and zip files with git.  When the repository grew to a few
mega bytes in size github.com would time out when pushing
changes.  I got around this by hosting the images, pdf files,
and zip files on Google Drive.  By hosting the binary files on
Google Drive the github repository contains nothing but text.
Another option is to use git-lfs but using Google Drive didn't
require additional software to be installed. I recommend checking
out github pages + Google Drive + Pelican for your website.

